---
title: Book notes - Make Time
author: 
date: 
tags:
---
- Being more productive didn’t mean I was doing the most important work; it only meant I was reacting to other people’s priorities faster. #productivity
- As I reflected on my missing months and what helped me stop the blur of time, I began to understand something: I loved thinking about big, lofty goals and I was good at getting things done hour by hour, but neither was truly satisfying. I was happiest when I had something I could hold on to in the present—a chunk of time that was bigger than a to-do but smaller than a five-year goal. An activity I could plan for, look forward to, and appreciate when it was done. In other words, I needed to make sure every day had a highlight.
	- If you have something that absolutely positively must be accomplished today, make it your Highlight.
	- The second Highlight strategy is to think about satisfaction: At the end of the day, which Highlight will bring me the most satisfaction? Use your Highlight to break the “someday” cycle. Consider projects you’ve been meaning to get around to but haven’t quite found the time.
	- The third strategy focuses on joy: When I reflect on today, what will bring me the most joy?
- If you didn’t get to your Highlight, it’s probably still important. Repeat until it's not longer your highlight - it's either done or done to the point where you are ready to put it on back burner.
- **Batch the small stuff**: Bundle up the small tasks and use batch processing to get them all done in one Highlight session. You’ll realize the real power of this tactic on the days you don’t use it: knowing you can safely ignore small, nonurgent tasks, letting them pile up while you focus on your Highlight. After all, with batching the little stuff, you have a plan for catching up.
- To-do lists make it worse because they mix easy tasks with hard-but-important ones. When you use a to-do list, you’re tempting yourself to put off those important tasks and knock off one of the easy items instead. #to-do-lists 
- **Front burner - back burner - kitchen sink list**:
	- Get out a single blank sheet of paper and create two columns by drawing a line down the middle. The left-hand column is going to be your front burner, and the right-hand column your back burner. 
	- 2. Put your most important project on the front burner. You are allowed to have one and only one project, activity, or objective on the front burner. Not two, not three—just one. In the top left-hand corner, write the name of your most important project and underline it. Then list the to-dos for that top project. This should include any task you can do in the next few days to move the project forward.
	- 4. Put your second most important project on the back burner. At the top of the right-hand column, write the name of your second most important project and underline it, then list the related to-dos underneath.
	- Finally, about halfway down the right-hand column, list any miscellaneous tasks that you need to do but that don’t fit with project 1 or project 2. It doesn’t matter if they’re part of project 3 or project 4 or are totally random; they get chucked into the kitchen sink with everything else.
- The Burner List won’t have room for everything, and that means you’ll have to let go of things that aren’t as important. But again, that’s exactly the point. I’ve found that one big project, one small project, and a short list of catchall tasks are all I can (or should!) take on at once. If it doesn’t fit on the paper, it won’t fit in my life.
- **Run a personal sprint** on important multi day tasks instead of chopping them into too small chunks done every day - it takes a few days to get in the zone on anything. #sprints
- **Recreate the lists every few days**: The act of re-creating the list is important. It allows me to discard some unfinished tasks that no longer matter, and it also allows me to reconsider which projects belong on the front and back burners right now.
- In reality, a structured day creates freedom. When you don’t have a plan, you have to decide constantly what to do next, and you might get distracted thinking about all the things you should or could do. But a completely planned day provides the freedom to focus on the moment.
- **Stop before you're exhausted**: Working till exhaustion makes us more likely to fall behind by robbing us of the rest we need to prioritize and do our best work. Trying to cram in just one more thing is like driving a car that is running out of gas: No matter how long you keep your foot on the accelerator, if the tank is empty, you aren’t going anywhere. You need to stop and refuel. In our design sprints, we found that if we ended each workday before people were exhausted, the week’s productivity increased dramatically. Even shortening the day by thirty minutes made a big difference. When I found myself struggling with a not-so-hard task late in the day, I’d give myself permission to quit and pick it up again in the morning. Almost every time, I’d breeze through and finish in a fraction of the time it would’ve taken me the previous night. Instead of trying to power through when I was running on fumes, I refuelled by quitting when I was done. #plans #structure
-  